>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 20, DOZENS OF
TURKISH HOSTAGES ARE FREED.
ANOTHER HUGE SECURITY BREACH.
WHY CAN’T RETAILERS DO A BETTER
JOB STOPPING HACKERS?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
COLORADO’S GREAT POT EXPERIMENT.
>> PRODUCTS COME IN ALL KIND OF
FORMS-- PREROLLED JOINTS,
POT-LACED BROWNIES, HARD CANDIES
AND CHOCOLATE BARS.
MARIJUANA-INFUSED BEVERAGES AND
MASSAGE OILS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
"NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
49 TURKISH HOSTAGES WHO WERE
HELD CAPTIVE BY ISIS MILITANT
FOR MORE THAN THREE MONTHS WERE
WELCOMED HOME TODAY BY OVERJOYED
RELATIVES AND FRIEND.
THEY’D BE SEIZED FROM THE TURBIC
CONSULATE IN THE NORTHERN IRAQI
CITY OF MOSUL WHICH HAD BEEN
OVERRUN BY THE MILITANT.
DETAILED OF THE FREED HOSTAGES’
CAPPITIES ARE VAGUE BUT ONE SET
FREE WAS QUOTED AS SAYING THE
GROUP HAD BEEN MOVED EIGHT TIMES
AND ADDED, "WE HAD TOUGHIDIZE,
VERY BAD DAYS."
ANALYST BELIEVE FREEING OF THE
HOSTAGES, AMONG THEM CHILDREN,
DIPLOMATICS AND TURKISH SPECIAL
FORCES, MIGHT PAVE THE WAY FOR
TURKEY TO TAKE A MORE ACTIVE
ROLE IN THE MILITARY CAMPAIGN
ORGANIZED BY THE UNITED STATES
AGAINST YI.
IN BAGHDAD, THOUSAND RALLIED TO
PROTEST AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN
THE WAR AGAINST YI.
THE SUNNI EXTREMIST GROUP.
THE SHIITE PROTESTERS HELD
BANNERS SAYING, "NO FOR AMERICA,
NO FOR OCCUPATION."
AL-SADR’S LOYALIST BATTLED
AMERICAN TROOPS AFTER THE
U.S.-LED INVASION IN IRAQ IN
2003.
NOW TURNING TO UKRAINE, THE
GOVERNMENT AND PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS SIGNED A DEAL TODAY
MEANT TO REINFORCE THE SHAKY
CEASE-FIRE THAT WENT INTO EFFECT
TWO WEEKS AGO.
UNDER TERMS OF THE DEAL, BOTH
SIDES WILL REMOVE HEAVY
ARTILLERY AND MISSILE LAUNCHERS
FROM THE FRONT LINES, PULL BACK
FOREIGN FIGHTERS AND CREATE A
BUFFER ZONE.
RUSSIA SIGNED THE AGREEMENT AS
WELL.
DESPITE AGREEMENT, THERE WERE
NEW EXPLOSIONS TODAYED IN THE
PROVINCIAL CAPITAL OF DONETSK.
MORE THAN 2500 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN THE CONFLICT THIS
YEAR.
WORD TONIGHT THAT THE UNITED
STATES HAS CURBED SPYING ON
FRIENDLY GOVERNMENTS IN WESTERN
EUROPE.
THIS, ACCORDING TO AN ASSOCIATED
PRESS STORY, THAT QUOTES CURRENT
AND FORMER AMERICAN OFFICIALS.
UNDER THE STAND-DOWN ORDER, THE
AP SAYS CASE OFFICERS ARE
FORBIDDEN FROM SO-CALLED
UNILATERAL OPERATIONS, SUCH AS
MEETING WITH SOURCES THEY HAVE
RECRUITED WITHIN ALLIED
GOVERNMENTS.
AMERICAN SPYING IN WESTERN
EUROPE CAME TO LIGHT IN
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS LEAKED BY
FORMER N.S.A. CONTRACTOR EDWARD
SNOWDEN.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THERE IS
YET ANOTHER VEHICLE RECALL.
CHRYSLER IS RECALLING ALMOST
189,000 2011 JEEP GRAND
CHEROKEES AND DODGE DORANGOS.
THEY MIGHT STALL OR FAIL TO STOP
BECAUSE OF A FUEL PUMP PROBLEM.
DEALERS WILL MAKE THE REPAIRS
FOR FREE TARTING OCTOBER 24.
HUGE WILDFIRES CONTINUE TO BURN
IN CALIFORNIA.
ONE OF THEM ABOUT 60 MILES EAST
OF SACRAMENTO, HAS DESTROYED
NEARLY 120 SQUARE MILES OF
TIMBER AND VEGETATION.
IT SPREAD AGAIN OVERNIGHT AND IS
ONLY 10% CONTAPED.
AN ESTIMATED 5,000 FIREFIGHTERS
BATTLING THE BLAZE, WHICH
AUTHORITIES SAY WAS DELIBERATELY
SET.
A MAN BEING HELD ON ARSON
CHARGES PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
THE MANHUNT IS CONTINUING IN
NORTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA FOR
ERIC FREIN, A SURVIVALIST WANTED
IN CONNECTION WITH THE KILLING
OF ONE STATE TROOPER AND THE
WOUNDING OF ANOTHER A WEEK AGOD
FROM.
LAST NIGHT, AUTHORITY ORDERED
RESIDENTS OF TWO TOWNSHIPS TO
REMAIN IN THEIR HOMES AFTER
GUNFIRE WAS HEARD.
FEDERAL AND STATE AUTHORITIES
CONTINUE TO SCOUR THE HEAVILY
WOODED AREA FOR FROOEN.
THE SECRET SERVICE IS
INVESTIGATING HOW AN INTRUDER
BRIEFLY GOT INSIDE THE WHITE
HOUSE LAST NIGHT.
THIS VIDEO SHOWS THE TEXAS MAN,
42-YEAR-OLD OMAR GONZALEZ,
RACING ACROSS THE WHITE HOUSE
LAWN AFTER HE SCALED THE FENCE
SURROUNDING THE BUILDING.
HE EVENTUALLY MADE IT INSIDE
BEFORE HE WAS TACKLED BY
SECURITY AND APPREHENDED.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED A SHORT
TIME AFTER THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
TWO DAUGHTERS HAD LEFT FOR CAMP
DAVID.
THE FIRST LADY HAD TRAVELED
THERE EARLIER.
GONZALES REPORTEDLY WAS UNARMED.
AND THE ACTRESS AND SINGER
POLLY BERGEN HAS DIED.
DURING A CAREER THAT SPANNED
SOME 60 YEARS, BERGEN STARRED IN
THE MOVIES INCLUDING THE
ORIGINAL "CAPE FEAR," ON
BROADWAY, AND ON TELEVISION.
SHE BRIEFLY HAD HER OWN MUSICAL
VARIETY SHOW, AND WAS A REGULAR
ON THE GAME SHOW "TO TELL THE
TRUTH."
DECADES LATER, SHE APPEARED ON
"THE SOPRANOS" AND "DESPERATE
HOUSEWIVES."
THE.
SHE FOUNDED A BEAUT PRODUCT
COMPANY.
SHE SAID IT WAS VERY DIFFICULT
AT FIRST BECAUSE, "EVERYBODY
CONSIDERED ME JUST ANOTHER
BUBBLE-HEADED ACTRESS."
POLYBERGEN WAS 84.
TURNING NOW TO YET ANOTHER MAJOR
SECURITY BREACH AT ONE OF
AMERICA’S LARGEST RETAILERS,
THIS TIME AT HOME DEPOT.
WHAT WENT WRONG AND WHY CAN’T
HACKERS BE STOPPED.
FOR MORE WE’RE JOINED BY MICHAEL
RILEY A REPORTER WITH BLOOMBERG.
WHAT HAPPENED AT HOME DEPOT?
>> IT WASN’T THAT DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT HAPPENED AT TARGET.
BASICALLY THE HACKERS GOT INTO
THE NETWORK AND WERE ABLE TO USE
HOME DEPOT’S OWN SYSTEM TO PUT
MALWARE ON THE SYSTEM.
WHEN YOU WENT INTO HOME DEPOT
AND SWIPED THE CARD, THEY WERE
STEALING THE CARD ALMOST AS
QUICKLY AS HOME DEPOT WAS
GETTING IT.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER SEEING
WHAT HAPPENED TO TARGET-- THIS
IS A COMPANY WITH 80 BILLION IN
REVENUE, 2,000-PLUS STORES IN
THE U.S., DIDN’T THEY LEARN FROM
IT?
>> YEAH, THAT’S THE THING.
IT’S ONE THING TO BE TARGET AND
WATCH THIS HAPPEN IN A
RELATIVELY NEW KIND OF ATTACK.
IT’S ANOTHER THING TO BE HOME
DEPOT, WATCH TARGET GET TAKEN
DOWN, LOT OF THEM LOSE 40
MILLION CREDIT CARDS, NOT
ELSEWHERE, OR NOT LEARN NUF TO
ACT ACT QUICKLY SO IT DOESN’T
HAPPEN TO YOU.
HOME DEPOT DIDN’T SEEM TO TAKE
THE STEPS, QUICKLY ENOUGH,
ANYWAY.
IN ONE CASE THEY BOUGHT AN
ENCRYPTION SYSTEM TO ENCRYPT THE
DATA FROM THE REMSTER, BUT THEY
DIDN’T INSTALL IT UNTIL SIX,
SEVEN DAYS AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: COMPARE THIS
TO THE REST OF THE WORLD.
WE DON’T HEAR ABOUT THESE THINGS
HAPPENING IN EUROPE AND ASIA AS
MUCH.
>> EUROPE AND ASIA, JUST ABOUT
ANY ADVANCED ECONOMY USED A
CREDIT CARD WITH THE CHIP IN IT.
IT DOESN’T MAKE IT HARDER TO
STEAL THE DATA.
IT MAKES IT HARDER TO MAKE MONEY
FROM THE DATA.
WHAT THE CHIP IN THE CARD DOES,
THE WAY THE ECOSYSTEM WORKS, YOU
STEAL THE CREDIT CARDS, SELL
THEM TO PEOPLE, THEY CREATE A
FAKE CARD GINTO BEST BUY, BUY A
GIANT TV-- WHATEVER IT IS-- BUT
IT’S MUCH HARDER TO CREATE A
FAKE CARD IF IT HAS A CHIP IN
IT.
ANYTHING WITH A CHIP IN IT MAKES
IT HARDER FOR THIEVES TO MAKE
MONEY OFF THE DATA.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS ALSO
IN A CLIMATE WHERE THE CONSUMERS
ARE GETTING A BIT FED UP, JUST
SAYING WHERE DID MY CREDIT CARD
GET USED AND THEN WHAT WAS THAT
STORE THAT GOT HACKED AND HOW DO
I KEEP TRACK OF ALL THIS?
>> IT’S ONE HACK AFTER THE NEXT
AND I THINK-- I MEAN, I THINK
ONE OF THE THINGS WE SAW IN
TARGET IT WAS CHRISTMAS SEASON
HACK, AND CUSTOMERS STOPPED
GOING TO THE STORES NOW I DON’T
KNOW IF THAT’S GOING TO HAPPEN
TO HOME DEPOT.
IT MAY BE THEY HANDLED IT
DIFFERENTLY.
IT MAY BE THAT IT’S JUST A
DIFFERENT KIND OF CUSTOMER.
BUT I THINK GENERALLY, RETAIL
BRANDS ARE TAKING HITS BECAUSE
THEY’RE NOT PROTECTING STIEWRMS’
DATA.
IT’S SOMETHING YOU WALK INTO A
STORE, YOU BUY SOMETHING, YOU
EXPECT THE STORE TO PROTECT YOUR
DATA.
THAT CLEARLY ISN’T HAPPENING.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ALSO
SEEMS TO BE WE ARE IN A
DIFFERENT POINT IN THE EVOLUTION
OF HOW WE TRANSACT BUSINESS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: CREDIT CARDS
CAME AROUND SAYING IT’S SO MUCH
MORE SECURE THAN WALK AROUND
WITH BIG WADS OF CASH AND NOW
THE CARDS SEEM TO BE GETTING
REPLACED BY OUR FONZ WITH
N.F.C., OR OTHER TECHNOLOGY,
MAYBE THE APPLE PAY THING.
HOW QUICKLY IS THE U.S. MOVING
TOWARDS KIND DIGITAL CURRENCIES
OR PUTTING THE CHIPS IN THE
CARDS?
>> SO NEXT YEAR BASICALLY THE
U.S. IS SCHEDULED TO START TO
CATCH UP WITH THE REST OF THE
WORLD AND TRANSITION TO
BASICALLY A CHIP SYSTEM IN THEIR
CREDIT CARDS.
THE BANKS AND THE RETAILERS HAVE
GOTTEN TOGETHER AND SAID, LOOK,
WE’RE GOING TO SET OCTOBER OF
NEXT YEAR, 2015, AS A DEADLINE
WHERE LIABILITY WILL SHIFT TO
WHICHEVER SIDE OF THE EQUATION
DOESN’T ALLOW THE CHIP
TRANSACTION.
SO IT’S RETAILERS DON’T HAVE THE
READERS IN THEIR STORES THAT CAN
READ THE CHIPS, AND THEY GET
HACKED, THE LIABILITY IS ON
THEM.
IF BANKS DON’T PUT THE CHIPS IN
THEIR CARDS AND THE RETAILER
GETS HACKED, THE LIABILITY IS ON
THEM.
IT’S GOING TO CREATE A LOT OF
INCENTIVE TO SHIFT OVER.
AND THAT COULD EXPLAIN WHAT’S
GOING ON NOW.
THIS OF THERE SEEMS TO BE KIND
OF A FEEDING FRENZY.
YOU’RE SEEING A LOT OF RETAIL
HACKS.
IT MAY BE THEY SEE THIS AS THEIR
LAST OPPORTUNITY BEFORE THE
TRANSITION TAKES PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND YOU HAVE
PEOPLE VICTIMS OF THE IDENTITY
THEFT WHICH IS THE WORST CASE.
>> CREDIT CARD NUMBERS ARE NOT
THE ONLY DATA THESE GUYS ARE
STEALING.
IN THE CASE OF TARGET, FOR
EXAMPLE, THEY TOOK A LOT OF
PERSONAL DATA AS WELL-- NAMES,
ADDRESSES-- A THE LOT OF THINGS
THESE RETAILERS STORE UP.
TARGET WAS REALLY GOOD AT
TARGETING SPECIFIC KIND OF SALES
AND MERCHANDISING ADS TO THEIR
CUSTOMERS BUT ALL THAT IS BASED
ON A HUGE AMOUNT OF DATA THAT
THEY COLLECT FROM THEIR
CUSTOMERS AS THEY MOVE AROUND
THE STORES, AS THEY SWIPE THEIR
CARDS, AS THEY SEND THEM STUFF,
AND ALL OF THAT IS IN THEIR
DATABASES. THE HACKERS, IF EVEN
THEY CAN’T GET THE CARD, CAN
STEAL THAT. >> Sreenivasan:
MICHAEL RILEY OF BLOOMBERG,
THANKS SO MUCH. >> YOU BET.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
TONIGHT, COLORADO’S GREAT POT
EXPERIMENT.
THE SALE OF CANNABIS FOR
RECREATIONAL USE HAS BEEN LEGAL
THERE FOR NINE MONTHS NOW,
LEADING TO THE CREATION OF
THOUSANDS OF JOBS AND GENERATING
MILLIONS IN TAX REVENUE EVERY
MONTH.
BUT SOME COLORADANS SEE SIGNS OF
TROUBLE.
THEY WORRY THAT THE LEGALIZATION
OF THE DRUG HAS NOT ELIMINATED
THE UNDERGROUND MARKET FOR IT,
ESPECIALLY IN MINORITY
COMMUNITIES.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
RICK KARR REPORTS FROM DENVER.
>> Reporter: MARIJUANA GROWER
AND RETAILER ANDY WILLIAMS CAN
BARELY KEEP UP WITH THE DEMAND
FOR HIS PRODUCT THESE DAYS.
HE SAYS HE CAN’T IMAGINE A MORE
EXCITING AND LUCRATIVE INDUSTRY
TO BE IN RIGHT NOW.
BUT THE BUZZ IS ALL COMING FROM
CAPITALISM.
HE DOESN’T EVEN LIKE CANNABIS.
>> I TRIED EVERY FEW YEARS JUST
TO PROVE TO MYSELF I STILL DON’T
LIKE IT.
YOU KNOW, IT JUST AFFECTS ME
VERY POORLY.
>> Reporter: WHEN HE STARTED HIS
BUSINESS A FEW YEARS AGO,
WILLIAMS COULD ONLY SELL MEDICAL
MARIJUANA.
THAT PUT HIM IN POSITION TO BE
ONE OF THE FIRST TO SELL
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS WHEN IT
BECAME LEGAL THIS YEAR.
BUSINESS HAS BEEN SO GOOD THAT
WILLIAMS IS ABOUT TO HIRE THREE
DOZEN NEW EMPLOYEES AND RAMP UP
PRODUCTION IN A NEW STATE-OF-THE
ART FACTORY.
>> IT’S MANUFACTURING IS WHAT IT
IS, AS FAR AS I’M CONCERNED.
YOU ARE MANUFACTURING MARIJUANA.
THIS IS AN INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURING PLANT THAT GROWS
MARIJUANA.
>> Reporter: STORES LIKE THESE
CAN NOW SELL UP TO AN OUNCE OF
MARIJUANA TO CUSTOMERS WHO ARE
21 AND OVER.
THE PRODUCTS COME IN ALL KINDS
OF FORMS: CANNABIS BUDS FROM A
RANGE OF VARIETIES BRED TO TREAT
PARTICULAR AILMENTS, PROVIDE A
MELLOW BUZZ OR DELIVER A
POWERFUL RUSH.
PRE-ROLLED JOINTS, POT-LACED
BROWNIES, HARD CANDY AND
CHOCOLATE BARS, MARIJUANA
INFUSED BEVERAGES AND MASSAGE
OIL.
CONSUMERS SPEND TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS A MONTH ON THOSE
PRODUCTS, BUT WILLIAMS IS SURE
THERE’S A LOT MORE MONEY TO BE
MADE IN HIS BUSINESS.
>> YOU KNOW, I DID THIS SO THAT
MY FAMILY CAN BE SET UP FOR
THEIR REST OF THEIR LIVES.
RIGHT NOW, I ALREADY KNOW OF
SOME BLUE CHIP COMPANIES THAT
ARE ON THE... ON THE START LINE.
THEY’RE GOING TO COME AND BUY
PEOPLE UP, AND, QUITE HONESTLY,
I WANT TO BE ONE OF THOSE GUYS.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE BENEFITS
ATTACHED TO LEGALIZATION WAS
THAT IT WOULD ELIMINATE THE
BLACK MARKET, BUT THAT MARKET IS
STILL THRIVING, ACCORDING TO A
39-YEAR-OLD MARIJUANA GROWER WHO
ASKED US TO CALL HIM JOHN DOE
AND TO CONCEAL HIS IDENTITY
BECAUSE HE SELLS ON THE
UNDERGROUND MARKET.
THE ILLEGAL TRADE IS DOING
ESPECIALLY WELL IN BLACK AND
LATINO COMMUNITIES, AND HE SAYS
IT WORKS THE SAME WAY IT DID
WHEN POT WAS ILLEGAL.
>> YOU HAVE THAT ONE GUY, THAT
GUY THAT SHINES, THAT’S THE
ROBIN HOOD OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS MAN SUPPLIES A LITTLE
GHETTO AREA.
SIMPLE AS THAT.
BREAKS HIS OWN POUND INTO LITTLE
OUNCES AND HELPS EVERYBODY IN
HIS COMMUNITY, SO THEY CAN
AFFORD IT WITH HIM.
THAT’S HOW IT’S HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: YEAH.
AND THAT’S HOW IT HAPPENED
BEFORE, TOO.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
NOTHING’S CHANGED.
>> Reporter: JOHN DOE SAYS LOW-
INCOME BUYERS TURN TO THE BLACK
MARKET BECAUSE PRICES ARE HIGHER
AT LEGAL RETAIL STORES.
THERE’S CONFLICTING INFORMATION,
BUT AN OUNCE OF POT ON THE BLACK
MARKET CAN COST AS LITTLE AS
$180.
AT THE STORE ANDY WILLIAMS OWNS,
YOU HAVE TO PAY AROUND $240 FOR
AN OUNCE.
THAT’S PARTLY BECAUSE THE PRICE
INCLUDES A 15% EXCISE TAX, A 10%
MARIJUANA TAX, THE STATE SALES
TAX AND DENVER’S MARIJUANA SALES
TAX.
>> THE TAXES ARE AN OVERREACH
AND EXCESSIVE.
AND IT’S A REGRESSIVE TAX, AND
IT IMPACTS THE POOR MOST.
>> Reporter: LARISA BOLIVAR WAS
INVOLVED IN THE FIGHT TO MAKE
MARIJUANA LEGAL FOR MEDICAL
PURPOSES.
SHE USES IT HERSELF TO TREAT
STRESS.
SHE CAMPAIGNED FOR LEGALIZATION,
BUT SHE DOESN’T LIKE HOW IT’S
WORKING OUT.
SHE BELIEVES ALL THOSE TAXES
GUARANTEE A BLACK MARKET.
BUT TAXES HAVE BEEN BENEFICIAL,
ACCORDING TO MASON TVERT, WHO
ALSO CAMPAIGNED FOR LEGALIZATION
AND HELPED DRAFT THE STATE’S
REGULATIONS.
IN THE FIRST SEVEN MONTHS, THOSE
TAXES HAVE GENERATED $24 MILLION
IN REVENUE.
A CHUNK OF THAT IS SLATED FOR
PUBLIC SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION.
BESIDES, HE SAYS, THE LEGAL
MARKET OFFERS SOME THINGS THAT
CONSUMERS FIND MORE IMPORTANT
THAN THE LOWEST PRICE.
>> VARIETY, CONVENIENCE, SAFETY-
- THAT’S WHAT DRIVES EVERY
PRODUCT IN THE ENTIRE WORLD.
YOU KNOW, THAT’S WHAT’S GOING TO
DRIVE THIS MARKET.
IF SOMEONE IS LOWER INCOME OR A
HIGHER INCOME, CHANCES ARE
THEY’RE GOING TO GO TO A STORE
AND PURCHASE IT BECAUSE IT’LL BE
SAFE.
IT’LL BE CONVENIENT.
THERE’LL BE VARIETY.
THESE ARE WHAT DRIVE PEOPLE’S
DECISIONS.
>> Reporter: HOW HAS THAT WORKED
OUT SO FAR?
I MEAN, IS THE BLACK MARKET
GONE?
IS THE BLACK MARKET GOING AWAY?
>> I THINK IT’S ABSURD FOR
ANYONE TO ASSUME THAT WE CAN
ELIMINATE A BLACK MARKET THAT
GREW OVER 80-PLUS YEARS WITHIN
THE COURSE OF EIGHT, NINE
MONTHS, BUT WE’VE SEEN THIS
INDUSTRY TAKE A HUGE BITE OUT OF
THE UNDERGROUND MARKET.
>> Reporter: TO ENTER THE LEGAL
MARIJUANA INDUSTRY, YOU HAVE TO
BE A COLORADO RESIDENT IN GOOD
LEGAL STANDING.
YOU ALSO NEED THE CAPITAL TO GET
LICENSED, AND THAT CAN COST TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS.
>> IT’S CLASSIST.
THE REGULATIONS SUPPORT THOSE
THAT HAVE ACCESS TO WEALTH.
AND MIDDLE AND LOWER CLASSES
DON’T HAVE ACCESS TO WEALTH.
I CAN’T JUST GO AND ASK MY DAD,
"HEY, CAN I HAVE $20,000 FOR
LICENSING AND APPLICATION FEES,"
YOU KNOW?
AND THEN, "CAN I GET A MILLION
DOLLARS TO GET A PROPERTY?"
>> Reporter: TO START THE LEGAL
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS,
AN ENTREPRENEUR NEEDS A LOT OF
CAPITAL TO FUND AN INDOOR GROW
FACILITY, HIRE EMPLOYEES WHO’LL
CULTIVATE THE PRODUCT, INSTALL
SECURITY SYSTEMS, ALL WHILE
COMPLYING WITH STATE
REGULATIONS.
TVERT ACKNOWLEDGES THE EXPENSES
LIMIT THE ABILITIES OF
MINORITIES TO ENTER THE
INDUSTRY.
>> THIS IS A SYMPTOM OF RACE
RELATIONS AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE
IN OUR NATION.
THIS IS NOT EXCLUSIVE TO
MARIJUANA.
YOU KNOW, RIGHT NOW, PEOPLE IN
LOWER INCOME AREAS OR
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR ARE FACING
DISCRIMINATION AND BEARING THE
BRUNT OF SOCIAL POLICIES ACROSS
THE BOARD, NOT JUST FOR
MARIJUANA.
>> Reporter: BUT TVERT SAYS
SINCE LEGALIZATION THERE HAVE
BEEN FEWER ARRESTS OF MINORITIES
FOR MARIJUANA POSSESSION.
>> PEOPLE OF COLOR WERE BEING
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED WHEN
IT CAME TO MARIJUANA POSSESSION,
AND NOW, WHETHER YOU’RE WHITE,
WHETHER YOU’RE BLACK, WHETHER
YOU’RE A LATINO, YOU ARE NO
LONGER GOING TO BE BOOKED AND
CONVICTED AND TREATED LIKE A
CRIMINAL THE REST OF YOUR LIFE
SIMPLY FOR POSSESSING MARIJUANA.
>> Reporter: BUT FOR ANYONE WHO
WAS CAUGHT AND CONVICTED OF A
DRUG-RELATED FELONY BEFORE
LEGALIZATION, STATE LAW MAKES IT
VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO JOIN THE
INDUSTRY NOW THAT MARIJUANA IS
LEGAL.
JOHN DOE SAYS THAT KEEPS A LOT
OF PEOPLE WORKING ON THE BLACK
MARKET.
>> THERE’S A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BROKEN THE LAW THAT ARE
GREAT ENTREPRENEURS, WORK VERY
HARD, HAVE GOOD WORK ETHICS,
FAMILY VALUES, GOOD
COMMUNICATION SKILLS.
I MEAN, I DEFINITELY BELIEVE
THAT THEY SHOULD BE GIVEN A
CHANCE.
THE RULES AND REGULATIONS SHOULD
ALLOW A GOOD GROWER THAT’S BEEN
IN TROUBLE TO DO THIS.
THEY’RE NOT HURTING ANYBODY.
THEY’RE NOT OUT THERE, YOU KNOW,
STEALING AND ROBBING.
MOST OF THESE PEOPLE PROBABLY
GOT CAUGHT UP TRYING TO MAKE A
LIVING, TRYING TO MAKE MONEY.
>> Reporter: THE COUNTER-
ARGUMENT, THOUGH, IS IT ALSO
SHOWS THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO
BREAK THE LAW BECAUSE IT WAS
ILLEGAL.
SO, MAYBE IF WE GIVE THEM A
LICENSE AND THEY OPEN UP A GROW
FACILITY LICENSED, MAYBE THEY
WON’T PAY THE TAXES.
>> THEY’RE MORE PRONE TO
BREAKING LAWS.
WELL, YOU KNOW, THEY SAY THAT
ABOUT MANY PEOPLE, BUT YOU HAVE
TO SEE THEIR TRACK RECORD.
>> Reporter: JOHN DOE SAYS HIS
FAMILY HAS BEEN GROWING
MARIJUANA FOR MANY GENERATIONS
IN LATIN AMERICA.
HE BELIEVES THE LEGAL INDUSTRY
SHOULD BENEFIT FROM HIS
EXPERIENCE AND PASSION FOR THE
PLANT.
>> IT’S THE END RESULT IS THIS
LITTLE FLOWER THAT’S GROWING UP
AND ALL FULL OF JOY.
WHEN THIS COMES OUT, THAT’S WHEN
YOU SAY, "OKAY, I AM PROUD OF MY
WORK."
>> Reporter: LEGALIZATION IN
COLORADO IS STILL A WORK IN
PROGRESS, BUT THE STATE IS A
PIONEER.
AND AS OTHER STATES CONSIDER
LEGALIZATION, THEY’LL BE
WATCHING TO SEE HOW COLORADO
DOES.
>> Sreenivasan: ABOUT BEHIND
THE SCENES AND SEE MORE OF THE
OPERATION AT ONE OF COLORADO’S
LARGEST POT DISPENSARY.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
NFL COMMISSIONER ROGER GOODELL
ONCE AGAIN FELL ON HIS SWORD
LATE YESTERDAY AFTERNOON WHEN HE
TOLD REPORTERS HIS RESPONSE TO
THE RAY RICE INCIDENT HAD BEEN
INADEQUATE.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE LEAGUE IS
COMING UNDER INCREASING PRESSURE
FROM ADVERTISERS TO CRACK DOWN
AMONG CRIMINAL BEHAVIORS AMONG
ITS PLAYERS.
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED BY KEVIN
CLARK, A SPORTS REPORTER WITH
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
A FRIDAY’S AFTERNOON PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT OFTEN GETS
BURIED IN THE NEWS CYCLE.
WHAT WAS THE MOST NEWSWORTHY
THING, THEY CREATED ANOTHER
COMMISSION?
>> THE MOST NEWSWORTHY THICK WAS
THEY HAD NO NEWS.
HE HAD THE CRISIS MANAGEMENT
PLAYBOOK, A COMMITTEE READY TO
FORM, LAUNCHED AN INVESTIGATION
PREVIOUSLY AND HID BEHIND THAT
SAYING I CAN’T ANSWER SPECIFIC
QUESTIONS.
THERE’S AN INVESTIGATION GOING
ON.
HE CAME OUT WITH NOT A LOT OF
SPECIFICS.
HE WAS PREPARED TO SAY THE RIGHT
THINGS ABOUT IT START WITH ME,
AND I’M TO BLAME.
BUT HE DIDN’T HAVE ANYTHING REAL
AND TANGIBLE THAT PEOPLE CAN
POINT TO IS & SAY HERE’S WHAT
HE’S DOING TO ADDRESS THESE
PROBLEMS.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE SAME
TIME, THERE WAS A PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT REPORT FROM ESPN,
DEALING WITH HOW THE BALTIMORE
RAVENS ORGANIZATION KNEW ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED INSIDE THAT
ELEVATOR HOURS AFTER IT HAPPENED
AND HOW THEY OBFUSCATED THE
INVESTIGATION EVEN BY THE NFL.
>> YEAH, WHAT THIS DOES IS IT
TAKES THE SCANDAL AND BROADENS
IT TO LEVELS WE DIDN’T IMAGINE.
YOU KNOW, INITIALLY, THIS WAS A
RAY RACE/ROGER GOODELL SCANDAL.
NOW IT INVOLVES AN NFL CLUB.
IT INVOLVES AN OWNER, DICK CAST,
PRESIDENT OF THE RAVENS
APPARENTLY HAD CONVERSATIONS
WITH LAWYERS THAT CAME OFF
PRETTY POORLY IN THE STORY.
YOU HAVE THREE ENTITIES, THE
LEAGUE OFFICE ON PARK AVENUE,
THE BALTIMORE RAVENS AND RAY
RICE.
THEY’RE ALL LOOKING QUITE BAD
RIGHT NOW AND IT WILL BE AMAZING
TO SEE THE FALLOUT BECAUSE IT
LOOKS LIKE A LEAGUE-WIDE SCANDAL
AT THIS POINT.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
THE FALLOUT, WHERE IS THE
MOMENTUM AMONG SPONSORS WHO HAVE
AN INFLUENCE ON WHAT HAPPENS TO
NOT JUST THESE SPECIFIC INCIDENT
BUT THE NFL IN GENERAL?
>> AS WE SPEAK RIGHT NOW, THE
NFL DOESN’T HAVE MUCH TO WORRY
ABOUT.
THERE ARE KIND OF ROCK-SOLID
DEALS WITH THESE SPONSORS.
THEY CAN’T GET 17 MILLION RANDOM
EYEBALLS.
THEY CAN’T IPVEST IT IN
BASKETBALL OR HOCKEY BECAUSE THE
VIEWERS ARE NOT THERE.
THEY’RE GOING TO WAIT UNTIL THE
LAST SECOND.
DID GOODELL ORDER A COVER-UP,
DID THEY SEE THE NEW VIDEO.
THEY’RE PROBABLY GOING TO WAIT
FOR THE RESULTS OF THE
INVESTIGATION, SEE IF GOODELL
HAD TANGIBLE, AWFUL THINGS HE
DID AND THEN PULL IT.
I DON’T FEEL LIKE THEY’RE GOING
TO PULL IT JUST BECAUSE OF
SOCIAL MEDIA PRESSURE OR WHETHER
IT’S HURTING THEIR BRAND TO BE
ASSOCIATED WITH IT BECAUSE
THAT’S SHORT TERM.
THESE DEALS ARE SIX, SEVEN-YEAR
DEALS WORTH OVER $1 WELL IN A
LOT OF CASES.
THEY’RE GOING TO WAIT AND SEE.
>> Sreenivasan: A LOT OF
OWNERS, ESPECIALLY THE TWO
HELPING WITH THE INVESTIGATION,
HAVE PROFITED HANDSOMELY UNDER
THE GOODELL YEARS.
>> YEAH, IT’S A $9
BILLION-A-YEAR BUSINESS.
FRANCHISE VALUES ARE AN ALL-TIME
HIGH.
ONE THING THAT HELPED GOODELL
WAS LAST WEEK, THE BUFFALO
BILLS, A MIDTIER MARKET, MIDTIER
TEAM SOLD FOR $1.4 BILLION.
IF YOU DON’T HAVE ONE OF THE
MARQUEE TEAMS YOU’RE SAYING
WHATEVER HAPPENS I’M GOING TO
GET $1.4, $1.5 BILLION OUT OF
THE DEAL.
THEY LIKE ROGER GOODELL.
DO THEY THINK HE’S WORTH $44
MILLION-- HIS MOST RECENT
SALARY-- I DON’T KNOW.
BUT THEY DON’T WANT TO FIND OUT.
THEY DON’T WANT TO EXPERIMENT
AND FIND OUT HE WAS THE GLUE
THAT WAS HOLDING IT ALL
TOGETHER.
THEY’RE GOING TO TAKE A "WAIT
AND SEE "APPROACH LIKE THE
ADVERTISERS.
SO MUCH IS AT STAKE.
THEY’RE NOT GOING TO DO IT BASED
ON SOCIAL MEDIA OR EXPERIMENT
PRESSURES.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
EVIDENCE THAT MERCHANDISE SALES
ARE DECLINING AT STADIUMS ANDS
BECAUSE OF THIS?
>> NO AND THE MOST RECENT SUNDAY
RATINGS WERE STAGNANT OR UP FROM
LAST YEAR.
THE SUNDAY NIGHT GAME LAST WEEK
WAS UP 8% FROM THE YEAR BEFORE.
THERE REALLY IS NO EVIDENCE IT’S
HURTING THE LEAGUE ON THE FIELD.
LOOK, FANTASY FOOTBALL AND
OFFICE POOLS AND GETTING
TOGETHER WITH YOUR FRIENDS--
THOSE ARE THE REASONS PEOPLE
LIKE FOOTBALL AND SHE THOSE
HAVEN’T BEEN AFFECTED THROUGHOUT
THIS WHOLE THING.
>> Sreenivasan: KEVIN CLARK,
REPORTER FROM THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" WHO COVERS FOOTBALL.
THANKS SO MUCH.
JOIN US ON-AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
WE’LL REPORT FROM HUNGARY,
WHERE A FAR-RIGHT PARTY IS
GAINING GROUND BY PROMISING TO
CRACK DOWN ON CRIME BY GYPSIES.
>> THERE WERE SO MANY POLICEMEN
YOU COULDN’T MOVE.
THEY JUST KEPT SAYING, "OUT,
OUT."
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: BY A TWO-TO-ONE
MARGIN, AMERICANS DISAPPROVE OF
THE WAY THE N.F.L. HAS HANDLED
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INCIDENTS
INVOLVING ITS PLAYERS.
THIS, ACCORDING TO A POLL
CONDUCTED BY NBC NEWS AND MARIST
COLLEGE.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, THE
NEWSHOUR’S STUDENT REPORTING
LABS TEAM ASKED HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS FOR THEIR REACTIONS TO
THE RAY RICE INCIDENT AND OTHERS
LIKE IT.
THEY ALSO ASKED IF PROFESSIONAL
ATHLETES SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
ROLE MODELS.
>> WHEN I SAW THAT VIDEO OF RAY
RICE, I, ACTUALLY... SOMEBODY
SENT ME THE VIDEO, AND I WATCHED
IT.
AND I... I THINK THE RIGHT WORD
WAS, LIKE, APPALLED.
>> MY REACTION WHEN I SAW RAY
RICE LAY HIS HANDS ON HIS
FIANCÉE, IT WAS SHOCKING.
>> BEING AN ATHLETE, WE LOOK UP
TO THESE GUYS.
AND UNFORTUNATELY THE ROLE THEY
PLAY, IT PUTS A HUGE TARGET ON
THEM TO BE GOOD ROLE MODELS, YOU
KNOW, NOT ONLY ON AND OFF THE
FIELD.
KIND OF MAKES YOU WONDER, ARE
THESE GUYS THAT ARE BEING PUT IN
THE SPOTLIGHT WORTH BEING LOOKED
UP TO?
>> NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE, I
THINK ANY TYPE OF VIOLENCE,
ANYTHING THAT A REGULAR PERSON
SHOULD DO, YOU SHOULD ALSO GET
PUNISHED.
NO MATTER IF YOU’RE THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
IF YOU’RE A QUARTERBACK FOR THE
N.F.L., IF YOU’RE A KID LIKE US,
THERE ARE CONSEQUENCES TO
WHATEVER YOU DO.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, SOCIETY GIVES
THE IMPRESSION THAT ATHLETES DO
NEED TO BE ROLE MODELS.
HOWEVER, THIS DOES BECOME TRICKY
FOR ATHLETES BECAUSE THEY NEED
TO LEARN HOW TO BALANCE THEIR
PERSONAL LIFE FROM THEIR SPORTS
LIFE.
>> PROFESSIONAL ATHLETES
DEFINITELY HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO
ACT AS ROLE MODELS.
IF YOU ARE PLAYING ON EVERY
SUNDAY ON NATIONAL TELEVISION
AND PEOPLE WATCH YOU, THEN THEY
WILL BEGIN TO LOOK UP TO YOU.
AND WHETHER YOU LIKE IT OR NOT,
YOU HAVE TO ACT LIKE A ROLE
MODEL.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY,
THEY’RE NOT THE ONES WHO
INTERACT WITH YOUR CHILDREN.
IT’S YOU, IT’S TEACHERS, IT’S
EVERYONE ELSE.
SO, SORT OF PUTTING THE BLAME ON
THE PUBLIC FIGURES, MAYBE PEOPLE
SHOULD LOOK AT THEMSELVES FIRST.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
AN ESTIMATED 60,000 SYRIAN KURDS
HAVE FLED ACROSS THE BORDER INTO
TURKEY DURING THE PAST 24 HOURS
AS ISIS MILITANTS ADVANCE ON A
STRATEGIC SYRIAN TOWN.
MEANWHILE, KURDISH FIGHTERS FROM
IRAQ AND TURKEY ARE REPORTEDLY
MOVING INTO SYRIA TO TAKE THE
MILITANTS ON.
AND ONE OF THE 49 TURKISH
HOSTAGES FREED TODAY AFTER MORE
THAN THREE MONTHS IN CAPTIVITY
SAID HIS ISIS CAPTORS MADE THE
GROUP WATCH BEHEADING VIDEOS TO
TRY TO INTIMIDATE THEM.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I’M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.